hello and welcome to one is fun on fish
and I've got a very funny fish to show
you to start off with this little fella
here is in fact an oven glove you put
your thumb in the gill and then you can
pick up the hot pans or you can chase
people if they're misbehaving but anyway
onto the recipes and the first one I
want to show you is a recipe called
smoked haddock chowder this is half a
soup and half a fish stew and it makes a
lovely lunch or supper dish for one now
in the beginning I started off with 6
ounces of smoked haddock here that I got
on my plate and it's been cooked I'm
just gonna flake it up with my knife
what I did was cook it in 6 fluid ounces
of milk 6 fluid ounces of water and a
bay leaf just for 5 minutes
simmering and then I just left it in the
cooking liquid for 15 minutes to soak in
so that the liquid could draw out all
the lovely haddock flavor and here's the
liquid here which I've got in my jug
I'll just extract the bay leaf because
we don't want that now and the basis of
the sauce I'm going to make of the soup
rather is made in the saucepan here and
I've got just half an onion and this has
been chopped small and sweated in half
an ounce of butter and I'm going to add
just a little bit of thickness to give a
soup a very slight bit of thickness we
don't want too much so just a teaspoon
full of flour in there stir the flour in
till it's smooth then just add a tiny
little bit of the fish stock just to
blend the flour in and then you can add
the rest of the fish stock pour that in
and then while that's just coming up to
simmering point there I'm going to add
half of my cooked haddock that's now cut
into flaky pieces so that's going to go
in next and then I'm going to just wait
for that to come up to simmering point
just to allow the thickening to do its
work and then just let that come up to a
gentle simmer in point then turn the
heat off and that's going to now go into
a blender and be blended to a smooth
puree so we'll just pop that into the
blender now stand well back case you get
splashed that's it
lid on and then we'll just blend it
now that should be a nice smooth puree
I'll pop it back into the saucepan and
at this stage you need to taste it to
check the seasoning it's a nice smooth
puree there and I think that this is
nice if it's enhanced with a bit of
lemon juice about a dessert spoonful of
lemon juice and then the rest of the
smoked haddock goes in in nice little
chunks like this and then just bring it
up to a gentle simmer and the reason
that I want it to be a gentle simmer is
because the next ingredient is going to
be an egg this is smoked haddock chowder
with a poached egg now if you're not
familiar with poaching eggs by just
plopping them straight into the liquid
which I think's the best way to poach
them don't worry about it it's quite
easy but there is one important thing to
remember and that is the liquid must
only come up to simmering point now if
you have it to a strong rolling boil and
you pop the egg into that it'll just
disintegrate and go all over the place
you don't want that to happen so just up
to a gentle simmer and slip the egg in
and then it'll just cook very gently and
come out a nice compact shape